

BASELAYER::
    A selectively inclusive network which runs a chain.
    Selectivity is based on the presence of some address in an on chain structure.
        Trx requests from untrusted addresses are subject to seperate treatment if at all
        Addresses can also be removed from the structure

    The process of how one goes from untrusted to trusted or vice versa is varies by network.
    Such proccesses are defined within smart contracts on chain.
        Can define many such paths to "citizenship" or "uncitizenship".

ISOLATED DERIVATIONS::
    Then you have isolated systems that keep track of seperate balances internally.
    The trust is in the operator of the isolated system, but
        given access to the base layer such an interaction is consensual.

    For example you give netflix 2 ETH for 1000 movies, on base layer.
        then netflix keeps track of internal balances of netflix COIN without a chain.
        You can do transfers and what not within this netflix system.
            There are no trx fees. Its an internal centralized database.

SELECTIVITY::
    The purpose of selectivity is to limit the rate of trxs on the base network.
    All secure and decentralized chains become unusable at a certain point.
        that is unless one is willing to sacrifice both decentralization and security.
    Ethereum for example -- gas costs make the chain unusable between 1-2 million trxs per day
    The average american does about 2-4 trxs per day.

    Given a network sets no limitation on who or how trxs are made.
        A network is stuck with a capacity of 1 million daily users.
            This is a moderately large city, but nothing more.

    REASON -- gas costs are determined by quantity of transactions per block

    If you want to have a productive economy you need trx fees to be predictable.
    WHY ARE VOLATILE TRX COSTS COUNTER PRODUCTIVE?
        costs skyrocket, currency becomes unusable, in turn causes a crash of relative value.
        Crypto is different in that there is a point where the currency is being used too much.
            This is what people call scalibility issues. but this isnt a bug but a feature.

    So first thing is to create a way to control who can produce transactions.
    This way if people act out of order you can blacklist them.
        Also you could only whitelist nodes that you trust.
        HOW THIS IS DONE:: CONTRACTS on chain
            
    Once that is made then you can create loose rules about how / when to submit trxs.
    For example you might have many companies choreograph to transact at different times.
        This way you never flood the network.
    if someone does you have a system in place(Contractual) to deal with those cases.
    You could have an admin in charge of blacklisting/removing, or 
        it could be democraticly voted on by citizens or oligarchs.

SCALABILITY::
    Scalability is not achieved by engineering the network.
    The network has limits, but our behavior is maleable.
    We can adapt how we interact to better fit the environment provided by the network
    Exclusivity is just as valuable as inclusivity.
        Especially given a finite landscape.

L2s::
    L2s that try to aim for decentralization and security are just l1s.
    BLOCKs are finite size, scarcity creates value for each unit of the block.
        Unless you change block size the same limitations of the l1 apply to you.
        That is both volatile gas prices and inherently trx/day limit.
    And if block sizes get too large you approach a centralized and less secure network

    If you dont chase decentralization and security.
    you're essentially and isolated derivation and would be better off having local dbs.
    Also you are still vulnerable to an unpredictable base layer.

    Now I suppose you could achieve moderate decentralization by increasing block size.
    Meaning only those who can afford that much compute will succeed.
        But if thats your goal you can do that for cheaper as a selective base layer.
            which selects based on how much of the coin you hold.
        
CONCLUDING::
    The future is not owned by a monolith.
    A decentralized world is not achieved through a single decentralized network,
    but instead by the prevalence of various networks both decentralized and not.
    
    The playing field is rigged so that centralization and security are dichotomic.
    Security = decentralization, and decentralization = limited scale.

    Meaning decentralized systems have hard limits, but are secure.
    Centralized systems are weak, but have no hard limits.

    They both offer the weaknesses of one another.
    And they fit together like male and female.

    Meaning not only can you have a base layer with many kinds of derivitaves.
    You can have a derivative that belongs to many base layers.
