so now the question is what to build
And I dont know to be honest


Part of me thinks I have to like get something like GETH
    Or even reth, and fundamentally alter them
        Like get deep enough into the code base to add stuff

I think that is where we have to go...
Into RETH...
    Then try to create that loop of networking and on chain data
        That is really the only way to do this I think
    And maybe create different implementations files..
        So there are certain configs or whatever
            I dont know
            but there has to be a way to do this
SO GET STARTED WITH RETH...
    Try to figure out how the thing works as much as possible
    I think we can do this...
        I dont know how exactly but I think this can work

looking like I can get into the networking stuff



ARCHITECTURE::
    VOUCHERS::
        Contract where the person gives multi-values.
            socialz...there is a request to join network in community
            Then the voucher can either vouch or not
                VOUCH = forward trx via local RPC
                no need to change RETH
                    VOUCHERS are required to pay as well.
                    The person could fund it or the VOUCHER could loan it.
    SETTLEMENTS::
        Citizens on the network see that trx and can decide what to do.
            Using whatever mechanism is instantiated on that network.
            If accepted the person is brought up to speed


So the idea here is to fork RETH
    Then we can start doing our own little mods to the thing
    See if we cant implement the above architectures.

I just cloned RETH...
    but now Im thinking editing that shits gonna be a nightmare
    Maybe it would be better to just hack around it.
        maybe we can have it send to a port that I listen on
            and then just throw a firewall on its listening port
                and only allow local comms through that port
    So we trick the node into thinking its comming with people 
        despite listening on the wrong port
            I might need to change internal code anyway though
